README.md, before:

# Kalshi Deep Trading Bot

A straightforward trading bot for Kalshi prediction markets that uses Octagon Deep Research for market analysis and OpenAI for structured betting decisions.

![Trading Bot Flowchart](KalshiDeepTradingBot.png)

![Trading Bot Research Example](research-example.png)

## ⚠️ Financial Disclaimer

**IMPORTANT: This software is provided for educational and research purposes only. Trading prediction markets involves significant financial risk.**

- **No Financial Advice**: This bot does not provide financial advice. All trading decisions are made by automated algorithms and should not be considered investment recommendations.
- **Risk of Loss**: Trading prediction markets can result in substantial financial losses. You may lose some or all of your invested capital.
- **No Liability**: Octagon AI, its affiliates, and contributors are not liable for any trading losses, damages, or other financial consequences resulting from the use of this software.
- **Use at Your Own Risk**: By using this software, you acknowledge that you understand the risks involved and that you are solely responsible for any trading decisions and their outcomes.
- **No Warranty**: This software is provided "as is" without any warranties or guarantees of performance, accuracy, or profitability.

**Please trade responsibly and only with capital you can afford to lose.**

## How It Works

The bot follows a simple 6-step workflow:

1. **Fetch Events**: Gets top 50 events from Kalshi sorted by volume (filtered by status and time)
2. **Process Markets**: Uses top 10 highest volume markets per event
3. **Research Events**: Uses Octagon Deep Research to analyze event + markets (without odds)
4. **Fetch Market Odds**: Gets current bid/ask prices for all markets
5. **Make Decisions**: Feeds research results and market odds into OpenAI for structured betting decisions
6. **Place Bets**: Executes the recommended bets via Kalshi API

## Features

- **Simple & Direct**: No complex strategies or risk management systems
- **AI-Powered**: Uses Octagon Deep Research for market analysis and OpenAI for decision making
- **Event-Based**: Analyzes entire events with all markets for better context
- **Flexible Environment**: Supports both demo and production environments
- **Dry Run Mode**: Test the bot without placing real bets
- **Rich Console**: Beautiful progress tracking and result display with probability predictions

## Quick Start

### 1. Install uv (if not already installed)

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
uv sync
```

### 3. Set Up Environment

Copy the environment template and fill in your API credentials:

```bash
cp env_template.txt .env
# Edit .env with your API keys
```

Required API keys:
- **Kalshi API**: Get from [kalshi.com](https://docs.kalshi.com/getting_started/api_keys) or [demo.kalshi.co](https://demo.kalshi.co)
- **Octagon API**: Get from [app.octagonai.co](https://app.octagonai.co/signup)
- **OpenAI API**: Get from [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

### 4. Run the Bot

**Default (Dry Run Mode):**
```bash
# Shows what trades would be made without placing real bets
uv run trading_bot.py
# OR
uv run trading-bot
```

**Live Trading Mode:**
```bash
# Actually places bets (use with caution!)
uv run trading_bot.py --live
# OR
uv run trading-bot --live
```

### Optional: Filter markets by soonest expiration

You can limit markets to those closing within a certain number of hours from now using `--max-expiration-hours` (minimum 1 hour). This converts to the Kalshi API's `max_close_ts` (Unix timestamp) automatically.

```bash
# Only include markets that close within the next 6 hours
uv run trading-bot --max-expiration-hours 6

# Combine with live trading
uv run trading-bot --live --max-expiration-hours 12
```

## Configuration

Key settings in `.env`:

```env
# Environment
KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true          # Use demo environment for testing

# Limits
MAX_EVENTS_TO_ANALYZE=50      # Number of top events to analyze by 24h volume
MAX_BET_AMOUNT=25.0           # Maximum bet per market
RESEARCH_BATCH_SIZE=10        # Number of parallel deep research requests
SKIP_EXISTING_POSITIONS=true # Skip betting on markets where we already have positions

# Risk Management / Hedging
ENABLE_HEDGING=true           # Enable hedging to minimize risk and protect downside
HEDGE_RATIO=0.25              # Default hedge ratio (0.25 = hedge 25% of main bet on opposite side)
MIN_CONFIDENCE_FOR_HEDGING=0.6 # Only hedge bets with confidence below this threshold
MAX_HEDGE_AMOUNT=50.0         # Maximum hedge amount per bet in dollars

# API Keys
KALSHI_API_KEY=your_key
KALSHI_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key
OCTAGON_API_KEY=your_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key
```

### Configuration Notes

- **MAX_EVENTS_TO_ANALYZE**: Controls how many of the top events (sorted by 24h volume) to analyze. The bot fetches ALL events from Kalshi, sorts them by trading volume, and processes only the top N most active events.
- **RESEARCH_BATCH_SIZE**: Controls how many deep research requests are sent in parallel. Higher values process faster but may hit rate limits. Recommended range: 1-20.
- **SKIP_EXISTING_POSITIONS**: When enabled (default), the bot will skip betting on markets where you already have positions to avoid duplicate trades.
- **MAX_MARKETS_PER_EVENT**: Controls how many markets per event to analyze (default: 10). For events with many markets, selects the top N markets by volume to keep context manageable.

**Risk Management & Hedging:**
- **ENABLE_HEDGING**: When enabled (default), automatically generates hedge bets to minimize downside risk
- **HEDGE_RATIO**: Proportion of main bet amount to hedge on opposite side (0.25 = 25% hedge)
- **MIN_CONFIDENCE_FOR_HEDGING**: Only hedge bets with confidence below this threshold (0.6 = hedge when confidence < 60%)  
- **MAX_HEDGE_AMOUNT**: Maximum dollar amount per hedge bet to limit hedge costs

### Trading Modes

**Demo vs Production Environment:**
- `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true`: Uses Kalshi's demo environment with test data and fake money
- `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=false`: Uses Kalshi's production environment with real markets and real money

**Dry Run vs Live Trading:**
- **Default (Dry Run)**: Shows what trades would be made without placing real bets
- **Live Trading (`--live`)**: Actually places bets on the selected environment

**Recommended Testing Flow:**
1. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true` + Default (dry run): Test with demo data, no bets placed
2. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true` + `--live`: Test with demo data, fake bets placed
3. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=false` + Default (dry run): Test with real data, no bets placed
4. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=false` + `--live`: **LIVE TRADING** with real money

## Project Structure

```
├── trading_bot.py          # Main bot execution
├── config.py               # Configuration management
├── kalshi_client.py        # Kalshi API client
├── research_client.py      # Octagon Deep Research client
├── betting_models.py       # Pydantic models for betting decisions
├── pyproject.toml          # uv dependencies and project config
├── env_template.txt        # Environment configuration template
└── README.md              # This file
```

## API Integrations

### Kalshi API
- **Authentication**: RSA signature-based authentication
- **Events**: Fetches top events sorted by volume
- **Markets**: Gets all markets for each event
- **Orders**: Places buy/sell orders for YES/NO positions

### Octagon Deep Research
- **Research**: Analyzes event + markets for sentiment, news, and trading factors
- **Probability Predictions**: Provides independent probability assessments
- **Insights**: Gives actionable trading recommendations
- **Risk Assessment**: Identifies key risk factors for each market

### OpenAI API
- **Structured Output**: Uses GPT-4 for betting decision analysis
- **Decision Making**: Processes research data into actionable bets
- **Risk Management**: Built-in confidence thresholds and position sizing

## Example Output

```
Step 1: Fetching top events...
✓ Found 50 events

Step 2: Fetching markets for 50 events...
✓ Found 247 total markets across 45 events

Step 3: Researching 45 events...
✓ Researched NYC-MAYOR-2025
Predicted probabilities for NYC-MAYOR-2025:
  NYC-MAYOR-ZOHRAN: 71.0%
  NYC-MAYOR-ADAMS: 13.0%
✓ Completed research on 42 events

Step 4: Generating betting decisions...
✓ Generated 34 betting decisions

Step 5: Placing bets...
Bets to be placed:
NYC-MAYOR-ZOHRAN: buy_yes $25.00
  Reasoning: Research shows 71% probability, current market odds undervalue this candidate
  Confidence: 0.85

✓ Placed buy_yes bet on NYC-MAYOR-ZOHRAN for $25.00
  Reasoning: Research shows 71% probability, current market odds undervalue this candidate
✓ Successfully placed 28 bets
✓ Total amount bet: $1,247.50
```

## Safety Features

- **Demo Environment**: Test with mock funds before live trading
- **Dry Run Mode**: Simulate all operations without real money
- **Position Limits**: Configurable maximum bet amounts
- **Confidence Thresholds**: Only bet on high-confidence opportunities
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling and logging

## Development

### Architecture

The bot uses a simple, linear workflow:
1. `SimpleTradingBot.get_top_events()` - Fetch top events from Kalshi
2. `SimpleTradingBot.get_markets_for_events()` - Get markets for each event
3. `SimpleTradingBot.research_events()` - Research each event with Octagon
4. `SimpleTradingBot.get_betting_decisions()` - Process research with OpenAI
5. `SimpleTradingBot.place_bets()` - Execute bets via Kalshi

### Key Classes

- **SimpleTradingBot**: Main orchestration class
- **KalshiClient**: Kalshi API interface
- **OctagonClient**: Octagon Deep Research interface
- **BettingDecision**: Individual betting decision model
- **MarketAnalysis**: Complete analysis with multiple decisions

### Development Commands

```bash
# Install development dependencies
uv sync --group dev

# Run tests
uv run pytest

# Format code
uv run black .
uv run isort .

# Lint code
uv run flake8 .
```

### Error Handling

The bot handles various error scenarios:
- API rate limits and timeouts
- Market data inconsistencies
- Authentication failures
- Network connectivity issues

## Limitations

- **Event Coverage**: Processes events sequentially to avoid rate limits
- **Research Quality**: Depends on Octagon Deep Research data quality
- **Decision Making**: Relies on OpenAI's analysis capabilities
- **Risk Management**: Basic position sizing and confidence thresholds only

## License

This project is for educational and research purposes. Use at your own risk.

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the error logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify API credentials and rate limits
3. Test with smaller event limits first
4. Use dry run mode for debugging

Commit message:

Add backlink to Octagon AI main site in README

README.md, after:

# Kalshi Deep Trading Bot

A straightforward trading bot for Kalshi prediction markets that uses Octagon Deep Research for market analysis and OpenAI for structured betting decisions.

![Trading Bot Flowchart](KalshiDeepTradingBot.png)

![Trading Bot Research Example](research-example.png)

## ⚠️ Financial Disclaimer

**IMPORTANT: This software is provided for educational and research purposes only. Trading prediction markets involves significant financial risk.**

- **No Financial Advice**: This bot does not provide financial advice. All trading decisions are made by automated algorithms and should not be considered investment recommendations.
- **Risk of Loss**: Trading prediction markets can result in substantial financial losses. You may lose some or all of your invested capital.
- **No Liability**: Octagon AI, its affiliates, and contributors are not liable for any trading losses, damages, or other financial consequences resulting from the use of this software.
- **Use at Your Own Risk**: By using this software, you acknowledge that you understand the risks involved and that you are solely responsible for any trading decisions and their outcomes.
- **No Warranty**: This software is provided "as is" without any warranties or guarantees of performance, accuracy, or profitability.

**Please trade responsibly and only with capital you can afford to lose.**

## How It Works

The bot follows a simple 6-step workflow:

1. **Fetch Events**: Gets top 50 events from Kalshi sorted by volume (filtered by status and time)
2. **Process Markets**: Uses top 10 highest volume markets per event
3. **Research Events**: Uses Octagon Deep Research to analyze event + markets (without odds)
4. **Fetch Market Odds**: Gets current bid/ask prices for all markets
5. **Make Decisions**: Feeds research results and market odds into OpenAI for structured betting decisions
6. **Place Bets**: Executes the recommended bets via Kalshi API

## Features

- **Simple & Direct**: No complex strategies or risk management systems
- **AI-Powered**: Uses Octagon Deep Research for market analysis and OpenAI for decision making
- **Event-Based**: Analyzes entire events with all markets for better context
- **Flexible Environment**: Supports both demo and production environments
- **Dry Run Mode**: Test the bot without placing real bets
- **Rich Console**: Beautiful progress tracking and result display with probability predictions

## Quick Start

### 1. Install uv (if not already installed)

```bash
curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
```

### 2. Install Dependencies

```bash
uv sync
```

### 3. Set Up Environment

Copy the environment template and fill in your API credentials:

```bash
cp env_template.txt .env
# Edit .env with your API keys
```

Required API keys:
- **Kalshi API**: Get from [kalshi.com](https://docs.kalshi.com/getting_started/api_keys) or [demo.kalshi.co](https://demo.kalshi.co)
- **Octagon API**: Get from [app.octagonai.co](https://app.octagonai.co/signup)
- **OpenAI API**: Get from [platform.openai.com](https://platform.openai.com/api-keys)

### 4. Run the Bot

**Default (Dry Run Mode):**
```bash
# Shows what trades would be made without placing real bets
uv run trading_bot.py
# OR
uv run trading-bot
```

**Live Trading Mode:**
```bash
# Actually places bets (use with caution!)
uv run trading_bot.py --live
# OR
uv run trading-bot --live
```

### Optional: Filter markets by soonest expiration

You can limit markets to those closing within a certain number of hours from now using `--max-expiration-hours` (minimum 1 hour). This converts to the Kalshi API's `max_close_ts` (Unix timestamp) automatically.

```bash
# Only include markets that close within the next 6 hours
uv run trading-bot --max-expiration-hours 6

# Combine with live trading
uv run trading-bot --live --max-expiration-hours 12
```

## Configuration

Key settings in `.env`:

```env
# Environment
KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true          # Use demo environment for testing

# Limits
MAX_EVENTS_TO_ANALYZE=50      # Number of top events to analyze by 24h volume
MAX_BET_AMOUNT=25.0           # Maximum bet per market
RESEARCH_BATCH_SIZE=10        # Number of parallel deep research requests
SKIP_EXISTING_POSITIONS=true # Skip betting on markets where we already have positions

# Risk Management / Hedging
ENABLE_HEDGING=true           # Enable hedging to minimize risk and protect downside
HEDGE_RATIO=0.25              # Default hedge ratio (0.25 = hedge 25% of main bet on opposite side)
MIN_CONFIDENCE_FOR_HEDGING=0.6 # Only hedge bets with confidence below this threshold
MAX_HEDGE_AMOUNT=50.0         # Maximum hedge amount per bet in dollars

# API Keys
KALSHI_API_KEY=your_key
KALSHI_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key
OCTAGON_API_KEY=your_key
OPENAI_API_KEY=your_key
```

### Configuration Notes

- **MAX_EVENTS_TO_ANALYZE**: Controls how many of the top events (sorted by 24h volume) to analyze. The bot fetches ALL events from Kalshi, sorts them by trading volume, and processes only the top N most active events.
- **RESEARCH_BATCH_SIZE**: Controls how many deep research requests are sent in parallel. Higher values process faster but may hit rate limits. Recommended range: 1-20.
- **SKIP_EXISTING_POSITIONS**: When enabled (default), the bot will skip betting on markets where you already have positions to avoid duplicate trades.
- **MAX_MARKETS_PER_EVENT**: Controls how many markets per event to analyze (default: 10). For events with many markets, selects the top N markets by volume to keep context manageable.

**Risk Management & Hedging:**
- **ENABLE_HEDGING**: When enabled (default), automatically generates hedge bets to minimize downside risk
- **HEDGE_RATIO**: Proportion of main bet amount to hedge on opposite side (0.25 = 25% hedge)
- **MIN_CONFIDENCE_FOR_HEDGING**: Only hedge bets with confidence below this threshold (0.6 = hedge when confidence < 60%)  
- **MAX_HEDGE_AMOUNT**: Maximum dollar amount per hedge bet to limit hedge costs

### Trading Modes

**Demo vs Production Environment:**
- `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true`: Uses Kalshi's demo environment with test data and fake money
- `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=false`: Uses Kalshi's production environment with real markets and real money

**Dry Run vs Live Trading:**
- **Default (Dry Run)**: Shows what trades would be made without placing real bets
- **Live Trading (`--live`)**: Actually places bets on the selected environment

**Recommended Testing Flow:**
1. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true` + Default (dry run): Test with demo data, no bets placed
2. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=true` + `--live`: Test with demo data, fake bets placed
3. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=false` + Default (dry run): Test with real data, no bets placed
4. `KALSHI_USE_DEMO=false` + `--live`: **LIVE TRADING** with real money

## Project Structure

```
├── trading_bot.py          # Main bot execution
├── config.py               # Configuration management
├── kalshi_client.py        # Kalshi API client
├── research_client.py      # Octagon Deep Research client
├── betting_models.py       # Pydantic models for betting decisions
├── pyproject.toml          # uv dependencies and project config
├── env_template.txt        # Environment configuration template
└── README.md              # This file
```

## API Integrations

### Kalshi API
- **Authentication**: RSA signature-based authentication
- **Events**: Fetches top events sorted by volume
- **Markets**: Gets all markets for each event
- **Orders**: Places buy/sell orders for YES/NO positions

### Octagon Deep Research
- **Research**: Analyzes event + markets for sentiment, news, and trading factors
- **Probability Predictions**: Provides independent probability assessments
- **Insights**: Gives actionable trading recommendations
- **Risk Assessment**: Identifies key risk factors for each market

### OpenAI API
- **Structured Output**: Uses GPT-4 for betting decision analysis
- **Decision Making**: Processes research data into actionable bets
- **Risk Management**: Built-in confidence thresholds and position sizing

## Example Output

```
Step 1: Fetching top events...
✓ Found 50 events

Step 2: Fetching markets for 50 events...
✓ Found 247 total markets across 45 events

Step 3: Researching 45 events...
✓ Researched NYC-MAYOR-2025
Predicted probabilities for NYC-MAYOR-2025:
  NYC-MAYOR-ZOHRAN: 71.0%
  NYC-MAYOR-ADAMS: 13.0%
✓ Completed research on 42 events

Step 4: Generating betting decisions...
✓ Generated 34 betting decisions

Step 5: Placing bets...
Bets to be placed:
NYC-MAYOR-ZOHRAN: buy_yes $25.00
  Reasoning: Research shows 71% probability, current market odds undervalue this candidate
  Confidence: 0.85

✓ Placed buy_yes bet on NYC-MAYOR-ZOHRAN for $25.00
  Reasoning: Research shows 71% probability, current market odds undervalue this candidate
✓ Successfully placed 28 bets
✓ Total amount bet: $1,247.50
```

## Safety Features

- **Demo Environment**: Test with mock funds before live trading
- **Dry Run Mode**: Simulate all operations without real money
- **Position Limits**: Configurable maximum bet amounts
- **Confidence Thresholds**: Only bet on high-confidence opportunities
- **Error Handling**: Comprehensive error handling and logging

## Development

### Architecture

The bot uses a simple, linear workflow:
1. `SimpleTradingBot.get_top_events()` - Fetch top events from Kalshi
2. `SimpleTradingBot.get_markets_for_events()` - Get markets for each event
3. `SimpleTradingBot.research_events()` - Research each event with Octagon
4. `SimpleTradingBot.get_betting_decisions()` - Process research with OpenAI
5. `SimpleTradingBot.place_bets()` - Execute bets via Kalshi

### Key Classes

- **SimpleTradingBot**: Main orchestration class
- **KalshiClient**: Kalshi API interface
- **OctagonClient**: Octagon Deep Research interface
- **BettingDecision**: Individual betting decision model
- **MarketAnalysis**: Complete analysis with multiple decisions

### Development Commands

```bash
# Install development dependencies
uv sync --group dev

# Run tests
uv run pytest

# Format code
uv run black .
uv run isort .

# Lint code
uv run flake8 .
```

### Error Handling

The bot handles various error scenarios:
- API rate limits and timeouts
- Market data inconsistencies
- Authentication failures
- Network connectivity issues

## Limitations

- **Event Coverage**: Processes events sequentially to avoid rate limits
- **Research Quality**: Depends on Octagon Deep Research data quality
- **Decision Making**: Relies on OpenAI's analysis capabilities
- **Risk Management**: Basic position sizing and confidence thresholds only

## Built By

This project is built by **[Octagon AI](https://octagonai.co)** – AI-powered research and analysis for prediction markets.

## License

This project is for educational and research purposes. Use at your own risk.

## Support

For issues or questions:
1. Check the error logs for detailed error messages
2. Verify API credentials and rate limits
3. Test with smaller event limits first
4. Use dry run mode for debugging
